---
layout: post
title: Federal NDP Leadership Poll
date: '2011-11-14T14:25:00.000-08:00'
author: Paul Ramsey
tags: 
modified_time: '2011-11-14T16:44:47.389-08:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-14903426.post-4682081615925154333
blogger_orig_url: http://blog.cleverelephant.ca/2011/11/federal-ndp-leadership-poll.html
---

The Federal NDP is in a leadership race, which means that candidates who have paid their entrance fee have access to the membership list, some 100,000 Canadians like myself. As a political observer and data fiend, who had access to such a list myself [only this spring](/2011/01/we-interrupt-this-geeky-spring.html), I love watching to see how people make use of it: do we get the standard policy screed, the informative candidate-is-visiting message, or something more devious... like the below!  So, an email arrives stating: 

<blockquote>Dear Member of NDP, 

I would really appreciate your participation in a study we’re currently conducting amongst members of the federal NDP. 

I recognize that you’re busy, so this survey is very straightforward and can easily be completed online at your convenience, in about 15 minutes. Please complete the survey before Tuesday November 15th. 

All information provided by respondents will be kept strictly confidential and used only for legitimate research purposes. Study sponsors will not have access to your name, address or phone number. 

To begin the survey, simply click on the link below. If your email does not support hotlinks, copy and paste the link into your browser. 

http://...omitted... 

If you encounter any problems, please contact me at the e-mail address below. 

Thank you in advance for participating in our survey. 

Regards, 

Agnes Klich<br/>Project Management Team Leader<br/>klich@logitgroup.com </blockquote>

The fact that they **have the NDP membership list**, and the content of the poll, lead me to believe it is associated with a leadership campaign in some way. But it's been done anonymously. The campaign that has done this both (a) gets the data and (b) pretty much ensures that anyone else trying the same gambit will get a much lower response rate. The poll itself is very long, I wonder how many full responses they get? I also wonder if there will be any blowback for using the list in this way? Based on the content of the poll, which campaign do you think is behind it? If the answer seems obvious, and you think there will be blowback, could the poll in fact be the product of a different campaign? Ain't politics grand?  <p>**Update:** Just to leave no stone unturned, I asked the researcher who commissioned the study, but the answer is not illuminating: 

<blockquote>The Logit Group is a Gold Seal Member Agency of the Marketing Research and Intelligence Associaton (MRIA), Canada's governing body for all market research firms.  As such, we conform to all regulations related to privacy and confidentiality. In this instance, the organization that provided us with member lists required that the survey be completed in a confidential, or "blind" method (whereby the survey sponsor was not identified at the outset).  In return, the responses of individual members (such as yourself) would not be attributed to you specifically when reported back (survey findings would only be provided in aggregate form). </blockquote>

<p><hr/><p>Which language would you prefer to complete this survey in? Dans quelle langue préférez-vous répondre à ce sondage? <ul> <li>English / Anglais  <li>French / Français </ul> <p>We are interviewing members of the NDP. Are you a member of this party?  <ul> <li>Yes  <li>No </ul> <p>How long have you been a member of the NDP?  <ul> <li>Less than 1 year  <li>1 to 2 years  <li>2 to 5 years  <li>5 to 10 years  <li>10 to 15 years  <li>15 to 20 years  <li>Over 20 years   </ul> <p>And in which province do you currently reside?  <ul> <li>Alberta  <li>British Columbia  <li>Manitoba  <li>New Brunswick  <li>Newfoundland & Labrador  <li>Nova Scotia  <li>Ontario  <li>Prince Edward Island  <li>Quebec  <li>Saskatchewan  <li>Yukon  <li>Northwest Territories  <li>Nunavut  </ul>   <p>Are you...  <ul> <li>Male  <li>Female   </ul> <p>Were you active for the NDP in the last federal election in May, 2011? (As a candidate, campaign worker, fundraiser, etc.)  <ul> <li>Yes  <li>No   </ul> <p>As you may know, a leadership campaign has been scheduled for March 2012. Each member of the NDP will be eligible to cast a vote for their choice of leader. <p>As far as you know today, are you likely to be voting in this leadership election?  <ul> <li>Yes  <li>No  <li>Not Sure / Depends   </ul> <p>Thinking about the next federal election, do you think the NDP will win more seats, will win fewer seats or will win the same number of seats as it has currently?  <ul> <li>Win more seats  <li>Win fewer seats  <li>Win same number of seats  <li>Don't know   </ul> <p>How confident are you that with a new leader, the NDP can defeat Stephen Harper in the next federal election and take over government?  <ul> <li>Very confident  <li>Somewhat confident  <li>Not very confident  <li>Not at all confident   </ul> <p>How much do you think the NDP's chances of defeating Stephen Harper depends on who is selected as the new leader?  <ul> <li>Depends a great deal  <li>Depends somewhat  <li>Depends a little  <li>Does not depend at all   </ul> <p>When you think about the federal NDP as a whole, where would you describe yourself in your own political thinking relative to the party?  <ul> <li>Far to the right  <li>Moderately to the right  <li>In the centre  <li>Moderately to the left  <li>Far to the left   </ul> <p>Some people say that they would like to know where each of the leadership candidates stand and want them to spell out in detail the policy direction they want to take the party in. <p>Others say that they don't want the candidates to present detailed policy because the party members and caucus should have a say in the party's future direction after the leadership campaign. <p>Which of these two points of view best represents your own thinking?  <ul> <li>Want to know details  <li>Party members should decide  <li>Don't know / Not sure   </ul> <p>Each political party has an establishment: a group of people who have been important to, and actively involved with, the party for some time either provincially, federally or both. What is your impression of the establishment of the NDP? Is it very favourable? Somewhat favourable? Somewhat unfavourable? Very unfavourable?  <ul> <li>Very favourable  <li>Somewhat favourable  <li>Somewhat unfavourable  <li>Very unfavourable   </ul> <p>Do you consider yourself to be a member of the NDP establishment?  <ul> <li>Yes  <li>No  <li>Don't know   </ul> <p>There has been some discussion about whether the NDP should at some point discuss a relationship or merger with the Liberal Party and the federal level in order to unite the centre left of the political spectrum. What would be your opinion of a move to discuss such a relationship or merger at some point in time? Would you be strongly in favour? Somewhat in favour? Somewhat against? Strongly against?  <ul> <li>Strongly in favour  <li>Somewhat in favour  <li>Somewhat against  <li>Strongly against  </ul>   <p>As you may know, one of the leadership candidates is proposing that wealthier Canadians should pay more in taxes. Would this make it more or less likely that you would support a candidate who proposed this, or would it make no difference in your support?  <ul> <li>More likely  <li>Less likely  <li>Makes no difference   </ul> <p>One of the policy issues being debated these days is the creation of a carbon tax for individuals and corporations who use hydrocarbon fuels and the use of rewards for those who reduce their carbon usage. Would you be strongly in favour, somewhat in favour, somewhat against or strongly against the NDP supporting the introduction of a carbon tax?  <ul> <li>Strongly in favour  <li>Somewhat in favour  <li>Somewhat against  <li>Strongly against  </ul>   <p>Different people have been telling us that they are looking for various things in the next leader. <p>From your own personal point of view, how important is it that the leader you choose ... (READ EACH OF THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS) ... ? Is it extremely important, very important, somewhat important, not very important or not important at all? (REPEAT FOR EACH STATEMENT)  <ul> <li>Be closest ideologically to yourself       <li>Be able to work with, and appeal to, the members of the party and the electorate in Quebec       <li>Be someone who will be able to put together the best possible campaign team       <li>Be someone who will provide the party with much the same direction as Jack Layton       <li>Be someone who understands the concerns of your province       <li>Be someone who will provide the party with a new direction       <li>Be able to hold the party together       <li>Be a currently elected MP       <li>Be impeccably bilingual in English and French       <li>Have experience in government       <li>Be someone who has been a long term NDP member       <li>Be someone who will be able to beat Stephen Harper in a debate       <li>Be someone who is able to appeal to those who have traditionally voted NDP       <li>Be someone who will have the support of unions       <li>Be supported by the establishment of the party       <li>Be someone who runs a positive leadership campaign and avoids attacking other leadership candidates       <li>Be able to win the next federal election       <li>Be someone with a broad base of support in caucus       <li>Be someone who is able to appeal to those who have traditionally not voted NDP        </ul> <p>Now we would like to ask you to think about the candidates who have declared for the NDP leadership. <p>What is your impression of ... (READ EACH CANDIDATE'S NAME) ... as a leadership candidate? Is it very favourable? Somewhat favourable? Somewhat unfavourable? Or very unfavourable? (REPEAT FOR EACH CANDIDATE)  <ul> <li>Thomas Mulcair        <li>Robert Chisholm        <li>Brian Topp        <li>Paul Dewar        <li>Nicki Ashton        <li>Nathan Cullen        <li>Romeo Saganash        <li>Martin Singh        <li>Peggy Nash         </ul> <p>Overall, based upon what you know about these individuals or have heard, where would you put each of these candidates on the political spectrum in relation to the Federal NDP? Far to the right? Somewhat to the right? In the centre? Somewhat to the left? Far to the left?  <ul> <li>Robert Chisholm        <li>Brian Topp        <li>Nathan Cullen        <li>Thomas Mulcair        <li>Paul Dewar        <li>Peggy Nash        <li>Martin Singh        <li>Nicki Ashton        <li>Romeo Saganash  </ul>   <p>Thinking about some of the leadership candidates, in your view, which of them ...  <ul> <li>Is most likely to win the leadership         <li>Will be most supported by the establishment of the party         <li>Is running the most positive leadership campaign and not attacking other leadership candidates         <li>Will best understands the concerns of your province         <li>Is best able to appeal to those who have traditionally voted NDP         <li>Will be able to put together the best possible campaign team         <li>Will be best able to work with, and appeal to, the members of the party and the electorate in Quebec         <li>Will be best able to beat Stephen Harper in a debate         <li>Will have the broadest base of support in caucus         <li>Will have the support of the unions         <li>Is best able to hold the party together         <li>Is someone who will best provide the party with much the same direction as Jack Layton         <li>Has been the longest term NDP member         <li>Is someone who will best provide the party with a new direction         <li>Is best able to win the next federal election         <li>Is best able to appeal to those who have traditionally not voted NDP         <li>Has most experience in government         <li>Is closest ideologically to yourself   </ul> <p>If the leadership vote was being held today, which of the leadership candidates would you be voting for? (Please select one only.)  <ul> <li>Nicki Ashton  <li>Robert Chisholm  <li>Nathan Cullen  <li>Paul Dewar  <li>Thomas Mulcair  <li>Peggy Nash  <li>Romeo Saganash  <li>Martin Singh  <li>Brian Topp  <li>Undecided   </ul> <p>How likely is it that you will change your mind and support another candidate before election day?  <ul> <li>Very Likely  <li>Somewhat likely  <li>Somewhat unlikely  <li>Very unlikely   </ul> <p>Who would be your second choice for leader?  <ul>  <li>Nicki Ashton   <li>Robert Chisholm   <li>Nathan Cullen   <li>Paul Dewar   <li>Thomas Mulcair   <li>Peggy Nash   <li>Romeo Saganash   <li>Martin Singh   <li>Brian Topp  <li>Undecided   </ul> <p>Who would be your third choice for leader?  <ul> <li>Nicki Ashton  <li>Robert Chisholm  <li>Nathan Cullen  <li>Paul Dewar  <li>Thomas Mulcair  <li>Peggy Nash  <li>Romeo Saganash  <li>Martin Singh  <li>Brian Topp  <li>Undecided   </ul> <p>Are there any candidates for leader whom you could never vote for? (Please select all that apply.)  <ul> <li>Nicki Ashton  <li>Robert Chisholm  <li>Nathan Cullen  <li>Paul Dewar  <li>Thomas Mulcair  <li>Peggy Nash  <li>Romeo Saganash  <li>Martin Singh  <li>Brian Topp  <li>None - Could vote for any of them   </ul> <p>Which of the candidates do you think Jack Layton would have wanted to succeed him as leader?  <ul> <li>Nicki Ashton  <li>Robert Chisholm  <li>Nathan Cullen  <li>Paul Dewar  <li>Thomas Mulcair  <li>Peggy Nash  <li>Romeo Saganash  <li>Martin Singh  <li>Brian Topp  <li>Undecided   </ul> <p>Finally, I want to ask you about some of the personalities in the NDP. <p>If the following personality supported a particular leadership candidate, would that make it more or less likely that you would support that leadership candidate, or would it make no difference as to whom you supported.  <ul> <li>Joy MacPhail       <li>Adrian Dix       <li>Lorne Nystrom       <li>Daryl Dexter       <li>Libby Davies       <li>Dwain Lingenfelter       <li>Greg Selinger       <li>Ed Broadbent       <li>Roy Romanow        </ul> <p>I would like to ask your reactions to the following statements. <p>Please tell me whether you strongly agree, somewhat agree, somewhat disagree or strongly disagree with each of the following.  <ul> <li>The NDP needs to move away from trade unions to win government.      <li>Given how well the NDP did in Quebec in the past election, the next leader of the NDP should be from Quebec.      <li>The next leader of the NDP needs to address inequality as a top priority      <li>The NDP can win government without becoming Liberals by running as responsible, principled New Democrats      <li>I would never vote for a leadership candidate who is not already a Member of Parliament      <li>I would never vote for a leadership candidate who has close ties to the labour movement      <li>The NDP needs to move closer to the political centre in order to be elected to government      <li>It is important that the next NDP leader be a woman      <li>I would never vote for a leadership candidate who was not perfectly bilingual       </ul> <p>Some people say that the next NDP leader must continue with a positive approach to politics in order to motivate progressive voters to defeat Conservatives. <p>Others say that the next NDP leader must take a more confrontational approach to Stephen Harper because he needs to be faced down in order to be defeated in the next election. <p>Which of these statements is closest to your own point of view?  <ul> <li>Take positive approach  <li>Take confrontational approach  <li>Don't know   </ul> <p>Some people say that the federal NDP has been basically on the right track since Jack Layton was elect ed leader and it should continue with this proven approach under a new leader. <p>Others say that the NDP has been on the wrong track and won't win government unless the new leader makes fundamental changes to the workings of the party. <p>Which of these statements is closest to your own point of view?  <ul> <li>On right track - continue  <li>On wrong track - fundamental changes needed  <li>Don't know   </ul> <p>And finally, a few questions about you... <p>Which of the following best describes your current marital status...?  <ul> <li>Single, never married  <li>Married / cohabiting  <li>Separated / divorced  <li>Widowed  </ul>   <p>Do you, or did you, work in the private or public sector?  <ul> <li>Private  <li>Public  <li>Neither   </ul> <p>Are you currently, or have you ever been, a member of a union?  <ul> <li>Yes  <li>No   </ul> <p>Are you a full-time student?  <ul> <li>Yes  <li>No  </ul>   <p>How would you describe the community in which you live?  <ul> <li>Urban  <li>Suburban  <li>Rural  </ul>   <p>While I know that most of us would classify ourselves as Canadians first, can you please tell me what your specific ethnic background is?  <ul> <li>White / Caucasian  <li>Black / African Canadian / Caribbean Canadian  <li>Hispanic / Latino  <li>Asian  <li>South Asian  <li>Middle Eastern  <li>Aboriginal / First Nation  </ul>   <p>Which of the following categories best reflects your total annual household income before taxes?  <ul> <li>Less than $25,000  <li>$25,000 to $50,000  <li>$51,000 to $75,000  <li>$76,000 to $99,999  <li>$100,000 plus  <li>Prefer not to say   </ul>

