---
layout: post
title: GeoJSON Features from PostGIS
date: '2019-03-27T06:00:00.00-07:00'
author: Paul Ramsey
category: technology
tags:
- geojson
- postgis
comments: True
image: "2019/geojson.png"
---

Every once in a while, someone comes to me and [says](https://trac.osgeo.org/postgis/ticket/1833):

> Sure, it's handy to use [ST_AsGeoJSON](http://postgis.net/docs/ST_AsGeoJSON.html) to convert a geometry into a JSON equivalent, but all the web clients out there like to receive full GeoJSON [Features](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946#section-3.2) and I end up writing boilerplate to convert database rows into GeoJSON. Also, the only solution I can find on the web is [scary and complex](http://www.postgresonline.com/journal/archives/267-Creating-GeoJSON-Feature-Collections-with-JSON-and-PostGIS-functions.html). Why don't you have a `row_to_geojson` function?

And the answer (still) is that working with rows is fiddly and I don't really feel like it.

However! It turns out that, with the tools for JSON manipulation already in PostgreSQL and a little scripting it's possible to make a passable function to do the work.

Start with a simple table.

{% highlight sql %}
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS mytable;
CREATE TABLE mytable (
  pk SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT,
  size DOUBLE PRECISION,
  geom GEOMETRY
);

INSERT INTO mytable (name, size, geom) VALUES
  ('Peter', 1.0, 'POINT(2 34)'),
  ('Paul', 2.0, 'POINT(5 67)');
{% endhighlight %}

You can convert any row into a JSON structure using the [to_jsonb()](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/functions-json.html) function.

```
SELECT to_jsonb(mytable.*) FROM mytable;

 {"pk": 1, "geom": "010100000000000000000000400000000000004140", "name": "Peter", "size": 1}
 {"pk": 2, "geom": "010100000000000000000014400000000000C05040", "name": "Paul", "size": 2}
```

That's actually all the information we need to create a GeoJSON feature, it just needs to be re-arranged. So let's make a little utility function to re-arrange it.

{% highlight sql %}
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION rowjsonb_to_geojson(
  rowjsonb JSONB, 
  geom_column TEXT DEFAULT 'geom')
RETURNS TEXT AS 
$$
DECLARE 
 json_props jsonb;
 json_geom jsonb;
 json_type jsonb;
BEGIN
 IF NOT rowjsonb ? geom_column THEN
   RAISE EXCEPTION 'geometry column ''%'' is missing', geom_column;
 END IF;
 json_geom := ST_AsGeoJSON((rowjsonb ->> geom_column)::geometry)::jsonb;
 json_geom := jsonb_build_object('geometry', json_geom);
 json_props := jsonb_build_object('properties', rowjsonb - geom_column);
 json_type := jsonb_build_object('type', 'Feature');
 return (json_type || json_geom || json_props)::text;
END; 
$$ 
LANGUAGE 'plpgsql' IMMUTABLE STRICT;
{% endhighlight %}

Voila! Now we can turn any relation into a proper GeoJSON "Feature" with just one(ish) function call.

```
SELECT rowjsonb_to_geojson(to_jsonb(mytable.*)) FROM mytable;                         

 {"type": "Feature", "geometry": {"type": "Point", "coordinates": [2, 34]}, "properties": {"pk": 1, "name": "Peter", "size": 1}}
 {"type": "Feature", "geometry": {"type": "Point", "coordinates": [5, 67]}, "properties": {"pk": 2, "name": "Paul", "size": 2}}
 ```

### Postscript

You might be wondering why I made my function take in a `jsonb` input instead of a `record`, for a perfect `row_to_geojson` analogue to `row_to_json`. The answer is, the PL/PgSQL planner caches types, including the materialized types of the `record` parameter, on the first evaluation, which makes it impossible to use the same function for multiple tables. This is "too bad (tm)" but fortunately it is an easy workaround to just change the input to `jsonb` using `to_json()` before calling our function.
